V14: vite-development-flow (#6219)
umbraco/UmbracoDocs: 14/umbraco-cms/extending/customize-backoffice/development-flow/vite-package-setup.md

Before following this guide, read the [Setup Your Development Environment](./) article.
{% endhint %}

1. Open a terminal and navigate to the project folder where you want to create your new Vite Package.

2. Run the following command in the folder to create a new Vite Package:

```bash
npm create vite@latest
```

This command will help you set up your new package, asking you to pick a framework and a compiler.

> 3. To follow this tutorial, we recommend you enter `Client` as the **Project Name** and **Package name** when prompted, although you can choose any other you like. Then choose **Lit** and **TypeScript**.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Enter `Client` as both the **Project Name** and **Package name** when prompted, 

{% hint style="info" %}
For following this tutorial, we recommend using the names given above, although you can choose any other you prefer.
{% endhint %}

4. Choose **Lit** and **TypeScript**.

```

<figure><img src="./images/vite-project-cli.jpg" alt=""><figcaption><p>Create vite command choices</p></figcaption></figure>

This creates a new folder called `Client`, sets up our new project, and creates a `package.json` file, which includes the necessary packages. This is where all your source files live.

{% hint style="info" %}
Alternatively of the two steps above, you can type the following:

```typescript
npm create vite@latest Client -- --template lit-ts
```

This will create a Vite Package with Lit and TypeScript in a folder called **Client**.
{% endhint %}

> 4. Navigate to the new project folder **Client** and install the packages using:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Navigate to the new project folder **Client** and install the packages using:
```

```bash
npm install
```

> 5. Install the Backoffice package. You can install the package using the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Install the Backoffice package using the following command:
```

If this is used the Intellisense to those external references will not be available.
{% endhint %}

> 6. Create a new file called `vite.config.ts` in the folder and insert the following code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Create a new file called `vite.config.ts` in the folder and insert the following code:
```

> **Build Package**

Reviewer: Is this meant as a heading?

```suggestion
### Build Package
```

Author: I don't know what makes sense here. It was a pre-existing line. What would you suggest?

To be able to test your package, you will need to run your site.

Before you do this, you need to make sure to run `npm run build` to compile your TypeScript files and copy them to the `App_Plugins/Client` folder.

> If you try to include some of these resources via Visual Studio (VS), then make sure not to include TypeScript files. Otherwise, VS will try to include a few lines on your `.csproj` file to compile the TypeScript code that exists in your project folder. When you run your website, VS will try to compile these files and fail.

Reviewer: Would it make sense to add this to a warning instead?
Otherwise I think it would be easy to miss.

> **Result**

Reviewer: Is this meant as a heading?

```suggestion
## Result**
```

The final result looks like this:

<figure><img src="../../../.gitbook/assets/Vite_Package_Setup_Dashboard.png" alt=""><figcaption><p>My dashboard</p></figcaption></figure>

Back in the `src/my-element.ts` file, you can update the `styles` property to make any styling changes. You can change the `background-color` of the `button` to white so it is more visible:

```css
button {
    background-color: white;
}
```

## Summary

With this, you have set up your Package and created an Extension for the Backoffice.

In more advanced cases, you can add more elements to your package and create more complex extensions. In that case, you can benefit greatly from creating another project in your solution to hold the files. This way, you can keep your solution clean and organized. We recommend creating a [Razor Class Library (RCL)](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/razor-pages/ui-class?view=aspnetcore-8.0&tabs=visual-studio#create-an-rcl-with-static-assets) for this purpose. You can read more about this in the [Development Flow](./README.md#source-code) article.

> This Dashboard appears on all sections and does not do much. Let us make it interact with the Umbraco Backoffice, so continue by following the tutorial on [Creating Your First Extension](../../../tutorials/creating-your-first-extension.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This Dashboard appears in all sections and does not do much. To extend it to interact with the Umbraco Backoffice, follow the tutorial on [Creating Your First Extension](../../../tutorials/creating-your-first-extension.md).
```
